.\"
.\" MAN PAGE COMMENTS to
.\"
.\"     Arnold Robbins
.\"     bug-gawk@gnu.org
.\"
.\"     Last Change: Mon Apr 18 16:21:25 IDT 2022
.\"
.TH GAWKBUG 1 "2022 Apr 18" "GNU Awk 5.2"
.SH NAME
gawkbug \- report a bug in gawk
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBgawkbug\fP [\fI--version\fP] [\fI--help\fP] [\fIemail-address\fP]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B gawkbug
is a shell script to help the user compose and mail bug reports
concerning
.B gawk
in a standard format.
.B gawkbug
invokes the editor specified by the environment variable
.SM
.B EDITOR
on a temporary copy of the bug report format outline. The user must
fill in the appropriate fields and exit the editor.
.B gawkbug
then mails the completed report to \fIbug-gawk@gnu.org\fP, or
\fIemail-address\fP.  If the report cannot be mailed, it is saved in the
file \fIdead.gawkbug\fP in the invoking user's home directory.
.PP
The bug report format outline consists of several sections.  The first
section provides information about the machine, operating system, the
.B gawk
version, and the compilation environment.  The second section
should be filled in with a description of the bug.  The third section
should be a description of how to reproduce the bug.  The optional
fourth section is for a proposed fix.  Fixes are encouraged.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.B gawkbug
will utilize the following environment variables if they exist:
.TP
.B EDITOR
Specifies the preferred editor. If
.SM
.B EDITOR
is not set,
.B gawkbug
attempts to locate a number of alternative editors, including
.BR vim ,
and if it must,
.BR emacs .
If
.B gawkbug
cannot locate any of the alternative editors, it attempts to execute \fBvi\fP.
.TP
.B HOME
Directory in which the failed bug report is saved if the mail fails.
.TP
.B TMPDIR
Directory in which to create temporary files and directories.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.TP
\fIgawk\fP(1)
.SH AUTHORS
Brian Fox, Free Software Foundation
.br
bfox@gnu.org
.PP
Chet Ramey, Case Western Reserve University
.br
chet@po.cwru.edu
.PP
Arnold Robbins
.br
bug-gawk@gnu.org
